so you're at home enjoying your evening
tea under a warm blanket
when all of a sudden you see a huge no
enormous mosquito
its long and gangly legs have a span of
your palm
and it clumsily bumps into all the
obstacles it meets
despite its awkward appearance it's
still terrifying
what if it carries malaria what if it
eats you alive in your sleep
slowly not to draw the monster's
attention to yourself
you get out from your soft chair and run
for it into the bathroom
lock yourself in there and open the
browser on your phone
after a few seconds you draw a ragged
breath
of relief turns out it's just a crane
fly
not a mosquito at all it might look like
a ferocious beast
but it's actually peaceful and even
defenseless
many crane flies don't even have mouths
so they don't eat it all
and those that have a mouthpiece will
only munch on sweet flower nectar
crane flies are really clumsy in the air
their
rather short wings are no match for
their huge bodies and long legs
so they're slow and it's easy to catch
them birds and frogs
as well as bats and cats love them as a
treat
the only way they can avoid being eaten
is by losing a limb
their legs easily break off even when
nothing touches them
and if you're still unconvinced not to
scram and set your house on fire when
you see one
consider this crane flies can tell you
if the water pool you're about to swim
in
is of good quality if you see these bugs
on or above the water
you're good to go even more fishers
often make their
bait look like the crane fly larva ah
this makes it more appetizing for the
fish
but while googling you get engrossed
with reading up on some
other weird and crazy bugs for example
here's the human face stink bug nah they
don't really stink
at least for humans they give off
pheromones that attract
other stink bugs letting them know
there's food nearby
the most peculiar feature of it is in
the name a man
face stink bug has a face on his back
with three black dots drawn in red the
vibrant color of its back
warns predators that the bug isn't tasty
or even poisonous while the black eyes
draw attention from them to the
vulnerable head
saddleback caterpillar's name is also
quite telling
it looks like some creature from another
planet with a bright green saddle over
its back
and the saddle is sadly the only safe
part of the thing to touch
the spines you see all over the rest of
its body are sharp
and highly poisonous if you want to give
it a friendly tap on the back
make sure you don't touch anything else
well well we have a titan beetle next
meet the largest beetle in the whole
world it can grow as long as your entire
palm
complete with fingers seeing one in the
wild can be a shocking experience
especially if it flies right in your
face but don't fret
thankfully this giant is placid and
won't bite you if you don't mean it harm
still if you make it angry never let its
mandibles touch you
the bug will hiss and bite and what such
snap can crack a pencil in half
what's interesting an adult titan beetle
doesn't feed at all
it doesn't need food to survive as a
larva it gets enough energy to keep it
well
nourished even when grown up ooh i love
that ability
an even more menacing looking bug is a
giant wida
living in new zealand these cricket-like
creatures look like someone forgot to
lock the portal to the infernal
a massive beefy body with six thorny
legs
long alien looking antennae and big
mandibles that just might cut steel
well in fact these giant insects are
quite peaceful
and won't bite unless provoked and even
if they do
it's not as bad as you might think there
are videos with weeda's
biting hands of people holding them and
doing no harm at all
so don't let it scare you even though
such an insect might weigh
more than a full-fledged sparrow atlas
moths
look like they have three heads two of
which are serpents
these pretty nocturnal flyers have
strange shapes on the tips of their
wings that look like snake heads
this seems to be their mode of defense
from predators
and that's also why they're sometimes
called cobra moths
in southeast asia and india where they
normally dwell
atlas moths are often found on butterfly
farms producing silk
and at some site the wingspan of one
such moth can reach 10 inches
that's larger than your hand peacock
spiders
are perhaps the cutest arachnids in the
world second maybe only to their jumping
cousins
they're so tiny you probably wouldn't
even notice one scrambling through your
kitchen
but if you get a chance to take a closer
look do it
peacock spiders are beautiful they have
large
beady eyes a shiny blue and red coat and
cute fuzz
on their body and legs and their mating
dances something else entirely
too bad they only live in australia
another moth on the list the hummingbird
moth
remember the atlas one how huge it was
well this one's as big as a hummingbird
and holds much more resemblance to its
namesake than that
the speed at which it flutters its wings
the long tongue to drink flower nectar
and even the sound it makes when flying
all of it makes you wonder if it's
really a moth
after all of course the fuzzy critter is
absolutely safe
and you should consider yourself lucky
if you ever see one
longhorned orb weaver spider is one of
the most unusual
arachnids in the world it's just your
regular spider in all respects
but for some reason it boasts two long
curved horns on its back
the back itself is bright orange to ward
off predators
red means danger but scientists are
still unsure
why this spider needs those prongs so
there's a
web of mystery for you
the soft rustling of leaves underneath a
pile of them slightly moving
and a big mighty horn shows up it's the
hercules beetle
one of the largest beetles on the planet
almost
half of its size comes from that horn on
its head
thanks to this wonderful appendage you
know exactly
it's a male females don't have it at all
yet the name comes not only from the
horn but from the amazing ability of
this giant to haul
extremely heavy loads its strength is
second only to dung beetles
a hercules can carry as much as 850
times its own weight
if you ever see a bug with five heads
wearing a pointy cap
no you're not on another planet it's a
brazilian
straight from a sci-fi movie and on your
screens here
this insect is a real mystery it's small
and secretive and much is still unknown
about it
no one knows why exactly the treehoppers
have these fuzzy balls on their heads
but they've only got one head after all
that much is certain
going for a swim in a freshwater pond
somewhere in the african tropics
watch your toes you can get a giant
water bug hunting them
it's a predatory bug and the largest of
its kind
with those huge pincers it's no wonder
it's commonly known as an
alligator flea and a tow biter the bite
of this water dwelling monster is really
quite powerful
it grabs its prey with the front legs
and then slowly
munches on it and when i say it's a
predator i mean it
giant water bug's favorite food is fish
and amphibians despite their name
scorpion flies aren't related to
scorpions they get this moniker thanks
to their tails
which look a lot like the notorious
arachnids
seeing a flying scorpion is a daunting
sight at best
but fear not these critters are small
and gentle
and they can't even bite you only the
males have such a tail
and they use it to attract females hey
what do you imagine when you hear the
words walking stick
certainly not a bug but that's exactly
what it is
look at this twig and try to guess is
there something alive on it or not
yes and no this twig is not a twig at
all
it is a walking stick these insects have
developed a fascinating camouflage
they're long and unassuming able to stay
still for hours on end
which makes them look like dry twigs but
as soon as you touch one
it scrambles away on its gangly legs
thanks to their appearance predatory
birds often miss
walking sticks in the dense foliage and
their australian kin
give off a pleasant scent something like
peanut butter
ooh yum